##Design Documentation

#General changes compared to the  old OLAC website
General changes made across the whole website include an updated color palette and font, modern shapes, and a layout that’s more up to standards with current websites and is easier on the eyes.
We added a navigation bar and a footer which allow for easy navigation across the website, along with buttons for social media, a search bar, a contact button and a button to go to the FAQ. The OLAC logo is also visible in the top left corner.
Our color palette consists of the original OLAC blue (#023E8A), a deeper blue for button selecting (#00295E) and standard black and white for text. We also used a light gray (#F2F2F2) to create a contrast with the background, as well as a slightly darker gray (#D9D9D9) to contrast with this light gray. The ‘about’ button will have a dropdown menu which will also enable users to navigate to the statistics, overview and FAQ. 
We used the Roboto Slab and Roboto Condensed fonts for headers and text respectively. Text in tables also uses Roboto Condensed. This font is modern and easier on the eyes compared to the original font used by OLAC.

#Homepage
The homepage has been redesigned to be a more welcoming face for the OLAC. It includes the original OLAC mission statement in a more modern way, as well as a search bar, email sign-up box and a news tab, which includes icons related to the type of news (general announcement, policy update, site update). We also added a ‘slogan’, for increased engagement with the user. A link to the statistics page is available as well.

#Languages
The languages page is divided into several different sections. It first starts with a list of all the UN recognized countries in the world , showing their name and flag in alphabetical order. At the top there is a quick navigation bar, so you can navigate to the starting letter of the language. The flag makes a country recognizable and it does not disappear as a sea of text with all 193 UN countries, and you get to know the flags of different countries. We specifically choose not to divide the countries again into continents, since there are already quite a few pages before you get to the language entry, and the quick navigation bar makes it easy to navigate to your country of choice. Behind the name it states the amount of languages spoken in that specific country. When navigating to that country, the user sees a banner of a picture made in that specific country, and below are all the languages listed.  For countries where many languages are spoken, the same quick navigation bar can be added to navigate to the starting letter of the language. When the user clicks on that, then it will be able to view the entry for that specific language. 

The language entry page is divided into two parts. The main part, which includes the metadata, the OLAC info and OAI info. The other section is on the right side, and smaller than the main section. This includes some miscellaneous information, such as the region the language is spoken, more information about the language and the citation for the source. The reader is firstly interested in the metadata, that is why it is the first thing the reader sees. The table is clearly divided by the blue and grey section, and the text in the sections have a contrasting color for better readability. The blue (#023E8A) was chosen since it is the main color of OLAC and used throughout the website, and the grey (#D9D9D9) was used to create a slight contrast with the background (#F2F2F2). In the table itself there is as little text as possible, and anywhere where it states a link to another page on the old OLAC website it now says “click here”. This is all to give the reader only the necessary information and it tidies up the page overall. In the top right, it shows an embedded map of the countries where the language is spoken, to give the reader a good first impression and also include something visual about the language. And lastly, a link is added to the WALS for more information about the language itself. There are three language entries in total, two vietnamese (Chrau and Katua) and one in Myanmar (Achang). 

#About
Much more overview is created on this page by dividing the page into two parts. On the right side the events box includes a further dropdown and in the main part there are easy links to the FAQ page and the OLAC overview page if the reader wants more information. Founding and historical documents are also included for documentation purposes.

#Search
We haven’t strayed too far from the original design, since it is actually pretty modern. We have a simple and intuitive large search bar, with optional filters that are easily accessible on the left hand side. Something we added was a sort function, to simply sort either by date or by relevance. The results are organized in cards and can be continuously scrolled through. 

#FAQ, overview, statistics
These pages have been revised for a more pleasant reading experience. The overview page is not fully complete, but the rest of the original overview page follows the exact same design principles as the revised page. The FAQ page also follows the general design principles, with a clear overview of the questions and answers, along with links inside the answer text. The statistics page includes two tables from the original OLAC statistics page, with its color palette revised to be in line with the rest of the website.

#Differences between our Figma design and our HTML design
We tried to stay as close as possible to our Figma design, but we made a few different style choices. 
Overall changes include a hover effect on the buttons and sections on pages. When hovering over a button or section, it very slightly goes up and the background color changes slightly, for added engagement. The navbar and footer also look more concise, with a font that’s clearer than the font used in Figma. The search bar in the navbar is also more apparent. We have added a javascript function in the footer that shows that the page is up to date with the current date and time.

The homepage looks a little different, with the ‘slogan’ picture being smaller, and the ‘News’ section wider. We also made the ‘News’ and ‘Coverage’ headers blue with a blue bottom border, matching other pages on the site. The overview, FAQ and statistics pages have also been given an overhaul to match the other pages. The font has been made smaller and more padding and margin has been added for a better reading and viewing experience. Headers and subheaders have also been given a blue color, with a blue border under each header, indicating a new section. This same principle has been used on the FAQ page. The figures on the overview page have also been given a javascript function called ‘lightbox2’ that makes them expand when clicked (the source has been given in the html and css comments), and the tables have been made more consistent with each other. The coverage page has been renamed to Statistics. The design on this page has stayed relatively the same as the Figma design, but with blue table headers and bottom borders. The homepage, like some other pages, also includes different css rules for specific page widths to ensure proper scaling on all devices. We wanted the website to feel responsive on both phone and desktop browsers.
The about page has been modified to have a sleeker look, making the entire page more comprehensive. The buttons are smaller and the text is more readable. The page now does a better job of using the available whitespace, rather than having big ugly empty spaces.
The search results page also does a better job of taking up available space. The sort dropdown has been moved to be above the results, so the cards can be bigger. The filters are less overwhelming, so the focus is purely on the results.
At the language entry pages the map was eventually not included, due to the fact that certain languages are spoken in more than one country, and since the window for the map would be quite small, it would become messy, and it would not add any value. Due to time constraints, only the asian countries are included on the languages page, but it can be easily scaled to all countries in the world. For the rest, not much has changed, and overall we were able to stick quite closely to the figma design. 

